when i first came on youtube
there were a couple
specific
youtubers and specific youtube videos
that inspired me one that i've mentioned
of all my friends and all my colleagues
my colleagues i mean other people trying
to succeed on youtube is the channel
candid mommy
candid mommy i discovered her channel
because she had just one or two videos
that had vegan in the title or in the
description somewhere she's not vegan
turns out she had one big hit video
where she was talking about her divorce
where she was talking about her
disappointment in her husband
and her situation was
that uh she and her husband
had ordered this fitness program in the
mail it's called p90x it's very
very famous
i know of it and you know as soon as
they ordered this thing
her husband was losing all this weight
he got really leaning
oh wow it's a miracle this is a really
great
fitness program
he was a meth addict he had become a
drug addict
unbeknownst to her yeah and you know so
the video it's partly about her marriage
falling apart it's partly but obviously
her worries about her kids and the
divorce and her husband already had a
new girlfriend slash wife had already
left her for another woman and her shock
and horror at realizing that this guy
had a whole other life that he had kept
hidden from her like right up until the
moment when the marriage uh fell to
pieces and you know that's the kind of
thing how could you how is it possible
how is it possibly married to someone
and not notice that they're high on
drugs all the time it's like well you
know
we'd ordered this new fitness program
and he lost all this weight
and you know um he was really into
assembling model airplanes and model
helicopters he was spending all this
time he didn't sleep a lot he's up
up with the airplane glue
assembling
says his really human story and she
breaks down weeping on camera and she
breaks down
all the way and you know stuff like that
i mean
i know a lot of people look at youtube
maybe from day one like maybe when they
first get started or maybe you know when
they come in at a later point and and
what they want to do is is completely
fake it's completely artificial we were
just looking at that youtube channel uh
edgy veg there's a youtube channel
called edgy veg and there's nothing edgy
about it
and you know her format when she started
the channel
was this really phony detached cooking
show where she sits there and talks to
the camera and it's something you'd see
on cable television you know from the
minute i got involved with this game
i wanted to keep it all the way real and
you know i had a very clear you know
very clear set of inspirations here on
youtube people who are already doing
that like i mentioned it was also very
clear in my mind what i was rebelling
against
i didn't want to be
like my university professors you know i
didn't want to be like these phonies i'd
been surrounded by in buddhist studies
buddhist research and humanitarian work
a lot of phonies a lot of real dishones
there
and uh
you know
when you think about the particular
professors i had this guy i still have
email with him so it's
maybe kind of mean to shout him out with
this but you know um professor leonard
priestley i've said many times you know
the guy was like a negative inspiration
to me
i got to know him you know as a student
you know and he had he had ostensibly
devoted his life
to buddhist philosophy and you know
talking about buddhism
never traveled in asia you know never
you know he spent his whole life just in
canada just in toronto just in a library
you know and i've said this before well
i didn't want to end up like that i
didn't want to end up as someone who
only worked with buddhism on paper in
books and on a chalkboard i wanted to go
and see the poverty and the prostitution
and the bomb craters left by the various
wars and civil wars you know i wanted to
be in touch with the reality of what was
going on in 21st century asia and in my
way also i wanted to be more in touch
with what happened centuries ago
actually seeing
the stone remains you know stone
inscriptions stone monuments uh this you
know and actually going to the archives
you know i want to have this much more
authentic engagement both both ancient
and
modern i'll tell you something else
about leonard priestley
after his return retirement after he
stopped being a full-time professor of
of buddhism there was this little
article he put on the internet that
basically admitted that he was a uh he
was a convert to islam
he's a white western guy who got
involved with a form of sufi islam
that's called subwood
it's a
non-mainstream school islam there's this
little article stating that this was
actually the philosophy he believed so
there's another layer of phoniness to it
right like there's the phoniness of
being a white guy
who studies buddhism only from a library
and never gets out there and never gets
his hands dirty literally and
figuratively you know what i mean never
gets out in a rice field never learns
what it's like to farm rice you know
and
and then there's the phoniness
of representing buddhism i mean you know
i don't know i don't know his journey
that way but i assume he was kind of a
white western spiritual seeker hippie
who during one phase of his life was
interested in buddhist philosophy but he
ended up getting committed to actually a
form of islam you know so that becomes
phony that was phony in a way too and of
course i'm rebelling against my own
parents phoniness and so on you know
when i saw and again there weren't a lot
of examples when i saw something like um
that one video from candid mommy i'll
give a link in the description you know
or i saw a few particular videos from
the amazing atheist that seemed to be
really honest maybe i'm wrong but they
seemed i i obviously a lot of his videos
are phony but there were a few videos
that seemed to me really honest and
showed me from my perspective showed me
the stakes of the game we're playing
you know like what you can win and what
you can lose and how like this is a
format where
you know there's no script there's no
plot there are no special effects but
you know honesty
you know we can be honest in a way on
youtube no one ever could on cnn on hbo
on the food and that that was what i
wanted to do
you know i want to do that about
buddhism i want to do that about
politics i want to do that about
my own divorce my own failures in life
you know like my own you know that was
what that was what i want to do and if
if you were to ask me you know what is
my youtube channel about nobody asks
anymore there was a there was a time
when people asked that question i used
to say during the first couple of years
first two years or so the channel i said
look my channel is not about veganism
that's why it's not called veganism 101
or something you know what introduction
to veganism you know
my youtube channel is about my life
you know and veganism is just one part
of that you know buddhism is just one
part of that someone goes to politics
politics it's a big part of that but
it's just it's just one part of that
right
what makes it so hard to be honest on
the internet in 2021 is that there are
these people who will punish you for it
all right and
i have taken the time to respond to
the most
the most mean-spirited critic i've ever
had who's fandur okay now look let's
let's be fair so i want to say this this
is part of my own changing attitude
towards this you know
i don't regard
these mentally mean-spirited
people as a small minority of the
population anymore sadly i think like 90
of people are at this level of mental
dysfunction and i think 90 of people
this is the way they use the internet
and that's what makes it so hard to be
honest the internet is that you can do a
totally honest video sitting down with
your girlfriend and we've done both
we've done videos talking about how
wonderful our relationship is
and we've done videos talking about how
hard our relationship is or probably and
they're both honest
and like like 10 of the audience can
relate and can get it like i have some
of my fans are middle-aged married
people and there are people who write
into you like oh man i really get what
you're saying in that because they've
been through some of that with their
wife too or whatever they're like they
haven't really there were good things
about it but they're all so we've done
videos being really honest about how
wonderful the relationship is we've done
terrible the relationship is
but there are these people out there and
they're not a small minority i wish i
could say it was a minority of the
audience there are these stupid
malevolent mean-spirited people who are
going to go through
and pick out a few seconds here and
there and they're going to misinterpret
and misunderstand them
and they're they're motivated sorry
but like there i said this to a friend
of mine in a very different context
recently a friend of mine was talking
about another obsessive hater of this
channel for a couple years
um
and i said well we were talking about
this guy and i said well you don't
realize uh this guy he's convinced that
he's much more intelligent than i am so
the friend of mine i'm talking to says
well if he's convinced himself that he's
more intelligent or that's hilarious
because he totally misunderstands and
misinterprets like the most simple
concepts in your videos like that when
this guy's attacking me his criticisms
already showed that he can't really
understand what his time which is very
common what i said back to my friend was
oh no no you don't that's the art of it
that's the art of the thing
because the more someone misunderstands
me
the more they can convince themselves
that they understand what i'm saying
better than i do and that therefore
they're smarter than me
and that that is like the kind of
to be blunt in the parliament several
times that is the kind of mind
these people get into and they don't
realize the extent to which they're
they're deluding themselves and then
they go on and start their own youtube
channels and they try to delude others
most of them are that's just but to be
fair to fandar you know he's not the
only one does anyone remember vegan eva
veganeva is not vegan anymore uh
does anyone remember nor vegan
you know does anyone like there have
been people who put in a lot of effort
uh does anyone remember socrates
my youtube career has been a lot more
successful than hers that was another
rival youtuber who put in a lot of work
to trying to defame me and she got in
touch with my ex-wife and she
collaborated with mac's wife and tried
to make these videos like whoa
you know people who put in a lot of
hours trying to make me look like a
villain you know and i'm just telling
you i'm just being real i laughed at all
of it like the stuff from socrates none
of that ever upset me i found it
completely hilarious when i finally
heard that stuff
you know i know i know you don't respond
to it the same way the same way i do and
you know and and not everyone's cut out
for it and you guys have heard me you've
heard me give you know you've heard me
reflect on that and i've sometimes
advised people sometimes people have
asked me to start their youtube channel
i said no it's not for you because if
you can't laugh at this stuff okay
however sorry as much as i've laughed at
that like i laughed at nor vegan and i
laughed at sorcery i'm also honest about
the stuff i'm not
laughing at right where it's like no you
know and where i'm getting in touch with
people and saying hey take down the
video a great example of that would be
vegan foot soldier he's a that's a
really mentally limited guy you know i
don't know what i don't know what kind
of learning disability that guy's been
diagnosed i don't know what his problems
are that's a really mentally limited guy
and um
you know i i said to him look man like
you know what you're doing here is
really evil
it's really stupid and it's really wrong
and he did he did take down the views
another before you came into my life
another guy like that would be uh
uh joe vegan you know what he was saying
things that were really false about me
and were really criminal allegations and
i had to really write to him and say
look man like this breaks my heart and
and i knew it was very influential what
he said joe vegan
uh the other joe joe best and stuff
there were people i wrote reach out and
say look you know me you can talk to me
we've talked in the past and you're not
you're making up lies about me on the
internet and like exactly because they
know me because people perceive us as
people like well if they say it then
people are going to assume it's true
so no i've dealt with years and years of
really kind of heartbreaking defamation
and you just give me i wrote two i wrote
to this guy jason fonger most of you
will not remember that name his youtube
channel was a total failure but i wrote
to jason fong the other day and i was
saying to him look man how do you think
it was for me after living through years
of this stuff to go and deal with people
face to face in chiang mai where we've
been repeatedly we've been there
together you know what do you think it
was like for me to go and deal with
other vegan activists in toronto
or any of these places so you know as
much i'm saying i'm not lying to you
there are innumerable cases where i just
laughed at it i just smile i just
thought it was a joke and it was it
didn't hurt me at all there are other
cases where i've really had to try to
push respect and try to regulate try to
say to people look
you know this this is really bad evil
wrong this really impacts my life
negatively and like why aren't you
thinking about why aren't you taking
responsibility for it
so do you want to jump in now because i
mean you know kind of the main topic of
the video
like
okay
you can take it in any direction but
yeah
well i thought it was interesting what
you said at the start about being honest
on the internet and
in the way that's why i
think youtube is so valuable it's
because you can be honest on the
internet and
i remember when i was first
deciding whether or not
i would be on your youtube channel
i had some conversations with
family members and basically they said
it wasn't a good idea because of
crazy people like this who will make
your life miserable if you
upload anything to the internet publicly
right and sadly that in some ways has
proven to be true
but in others i think it's brought
people into my life that wouldn't have
otherwise and
i see a lot of value in the act of
coming on camera and sharing your real
life and sharing your real face and your
real voice yeah and most of the time the
people that message you the people that
harass you like this they don't show
their real faces they don't share their
real voices and we don't know anything
about them all that we know is that they
spend their lives looking at other
people and
um looking for their opportunity to
condemn them yeah looking for their
opportunity to take them down and
um
you know it's really sad because
but you see in the dark ages a lot of
that went on in christianity and
catholicism and witch trials but like
you know
even in ancient greece and ancient rome
like you see a lot of that side of
humanity before the internet absolutely
that's all right so i'm not you know
cutting off but like
this ain't something new it's not no of
course
and but the the difference is the
anonymity of it you can make fake
accounts you can you can pretend to be
somebody else on the internet and it's
usually you can make you can make fake
accounts you can also make fake evidence
which has happened to me yeah i always
remember that just a different
conversation i had today i was
mentioning to someone look you know
people have made up fake accounts to try
to contact me like pretending to be
someone else trying to get me to say
something scandalous right people have
also made up fake accounts impersonating
me to contact others and create like
that they've there have been fake isil
mazard accounts saying thing like even
though yeah just say and i'm not that
famous but i'm famous enough to deal
with that and i'm famous deal with this
oh absolutely and that was quite foreign
to me even though i knew that i should
be prepared for it just
having this series of realizations that
you really can't trust people on the
internet and you have to be guarded
and uh more so
than i had ever experienced prior to
this and
uh yeah it's a shame because
in real life before you came on the
internet people did say bad things about
your mind or back that's part of what
we're talking about people did but you
didn't hear about me i didn't care you
didn't know yeah yeah yeah but you know
like your roommates in college they
probably said a lot of bad things but
i'm just saying they probably did in
real life before the internet but yeah
yeah absolutely so i wasn't prepared for
the kind of yeah but you wouldn't see
the bluntness of the
you know the the direct uh hateful
comments or just
you know so i want something positive
you want to see them more negative but
do you too
oh well
yeah i mean like the positive that can
come out of it is that it can connect
you to people who are actually genuine
and sincere and
and they may be one in a million and
maybe one thousand i was gonna say you
got i think that's appian on your desk
yes okay so we we read a lot of texts
from ancient greece and rome uh so
appian a-p-p-i-a-n if you haven't heard
of him he's a very important author from
ancient rome that most he's not that
famous today he's unlike julius caesar
saying his name isn't that famous so you
know you're reading appian right now
um
as bad as this stuff is that we're
talking about here it's so much easier
to be motivated to read appian and you
get so much more out of it if you can
come on camera and talk about it and
have five ten fifteen intelligent people
involved in that discussion and you know
for me doing this for years and years
and years i got fan mail from someone
who's a new fan for my i don't know the
guy before but you know i had this guy
writing to me and he's really well read
in that kind of literature you
talk about ancient athens more than h
rom you know if you keep doing it for
long enough whether it's 5 10 or 15
people you do start to build up an
audience however small of people who
have similar intellectual
characteristics and ambitions and that
can make your own reading your own
learning your own research more
rewarding so in that sense you know do i
think it's worth it yes
and it's only worth it if you're going
to be really honest i know that may seem
unrelated but it comes back to the the
same the same fundamental point of this
video like
there is no point giving a kind of
dishonest academic presentation on
appian on thucydides on aristotle on
julius caesar just regardless of what it
is if you are going to put in the work
don't come on youtube and try to
dissimulate all the advantages and
disadvantages of a cited
peer-reviewed academic paper or a
lecture given at a university that's
everything we want to get away from
right and instead you know like again
that's and that's what i'm here to rebel
against i don't want to be like
professor leonard priestley i don't want
to give lectures like him professor
leonard i sat there and for a whole year
listen to him give lectures on buddhist
philosophy and he never once said like
he never once said something as honest
as
when he was younger he really believed
in this but now he sees it from another
perspective let alone i mean i know
realizes it's not going to be a course
of him just talking autobiographically
about how he feels about christianity
islam but but still you know what i mean
like and and that's exactly what makes
youtube so valuable is that you can come
out you can really say look you know
when i first read this book i didn't
really understand it and now
whatever it is that you get to go
through that struggle and the audience
gets to go through with yeah and i i
even for something that i feel that that
dry like some that's not your divorce
that isn't discovering your ex-husband
as a drug addict you know what i mean
yeah no i i definitely feel that way too
and
there are constraints in your
professional life where you can't
present
what you are actually going through
and on the internet on youtube you can
and
what i wanted to say in relation to that
it might actually kind of be more
okay in my experience it was not as easy
for me to learn about
historical subjects political subjects
uh
just from
a professor giving a presentation giving
a lecture like you say this a dry
lecture when there's actually some
personal
right yeah
right that this is what it means to me
and presenting this information this is
what it means to me this is why it
matters now right or even this is why i
asked this question in the first place
that led me to read this book this is
you know situating it in the present
tense so that history becomes something
that adds to the present and not just
something that subtracts in the past
yeah i said it better than i could but
yeah
that is that is really right that is
really the uh right you know and i first
experienced that with uh you know you
teach me about historical periods that i
didn't know much about and i just
thought it was great because the way
that you are talking about these
different issues is
uh right yeah it's actually related
right well like on a human level right
we are not talking about aristotle for
aristotle's sake yes i'm not trying to
help him out you know i mean like we're
actually talking about it because of the
way aristotle matters in my life and
your life and you know in a weird sense
the way it matters in understanding the
life of bill clinton or jfk john kennedy
you know i'm just saying like not
necessarily just my life in your life
but you know people historical figures
and questions and problems relate to
that actually these these things relate
to politics in these times yes so yeah
you know anyway
what i say is this though
you know this kind of honesty
and then the price it comes with like
you know
like maybe maybe in a weird sense i have
to thank
people like nor vegan maybe i have to
thank people like
uh socrates and i have to thank people
like fandar for really showing me how
how mentally disabled i mean
that and how mean-spirited the vast
majority of people are because you live
your life i've said this force i'm going
to say really briefly but you live your
life like even on a university campus
where you know very stupid people may
not be able to get into the university
at all they're already barriers to entry
but you live your life on university
campus where all the time
you are ignoring the stupid people and
they're kind of avoiding you they may
not be ignoring you but like you don't
even realize that you're only talking to
the most brilliant the most
self-disciplined the most highly
motivated people because the other
people are kind of slinking away in the
corner and they're not saying much
they're they're you know so that
this is true at cambridge university
oxford university this is true at
university of toronto or you know a
third rate small university like you you
may not realize but it's especially if
you're a brilliant hard-working
charismatic person yourself you're
really only
talking to and hearing from and
you may not intentionally be avoiding
the stupid people but you know that's
that tends to be the way the way it
works out so i'm just saying the sense
in which i could thank these these
people who have harassed me obsessively
for years and put a lot of work into it
is that it did really force me to face
up to
um
just how
just how stupid and malicious the vast
majority of people are and of course it
clicks
i studied the history of cambodia right
yeah so before i was talking about the
witch trials
so yeah but yeah you were recently you
read a lot about the history of
communist china you just read another
book on that now uh you know but yes yes
reading about the struggles struggle
sessions and how they yeah yeah
that period of history is full of just
mean-spirited
encouraging of this this
this tendency in human nature to just
attack people and and try to take
something away from them because they
have more than you you know like or just
because you can or just because you can
yeah exactly yeah
right that's empowering in some ways but
it's not because the kind of
it's not
you don't get anything out of that
you get to watch someone die get to
watch someone be destroyed yeah or even
if they neither died or destroyed you
get to see them you know
interrogated in public you know and
confessed and tortured and so on even if
they have completely innocent of the
crime exactly like in that sense the
witch trials never ended you know the
salem witch trials weren't some
aberration in the history of human
nature they were a moment that gives you
a clear window on human nature and i
think if you really study the history of
the communist revolution in the soviet
union the history of communism in
cambodia you know
in china and by the way china's not a
small example like if you want to
generalize about human nature you're
talking about a billion people you know
huge number of people involved in this
no i mean this shows you that the witch
trials you know never ended and it is
true if you come here on youtube and
you're honest this way you are putting
yourself forward to deal with that crowd
to deal with
that
unspeakably stupid and malevolent
majority
and again they have this motivation to
misunderstand you to misinterpret you
yes and i've seen that like
so no matter how clearly worded my
videos were no matter how much like i
explained like this is the analysis this
is why i'm making the point this is my
conclusion where it's like no no no i
found one sentence in there i can i can
use against you so that that brings us
to like the topic of this video okay and
you know you say i i do have a human
heart you know like i do actually
sympathize even with these people who
who hate me and this guy fandor i've
never written to him for years
positively encouraging him i can go back
and i can show you a screenshot of me
saying like look man if you want to like
you want to be successful on youtube
you've got to think about having
journalistic integrity you can't just
make things up and slander people and
defame people like you got to start
answering to some of the same standards
that you would have to ask you if you
were writing an article in a newspaper
like i have it hasn't been all carrot
and it hasn't been all stick it's been a
mixture of carrot and stick but no there
there really have been times when i
tried to motivate him positively and
i've been friendly and encouraging
towards him in that to to the extent
that i can give these you know had
carried on a you know defamation of
slander campaign against you know for
for years including harassment of my
girlfriend for no reason but i mean all
of it it's
what he has done to me i have never done
to any other youtuber and there are
people on youtube i hate there are
people i have hard feelings against but
i would never do to them publicly or
privately what this guy fandar has done
to me both publicly and privately
but the origin of this and you know at
the moment it happened
i could already imagine at that time
some idiot in the audience whether it be
vegan foot soldier or whether it be
you know nor vegan or one of these
obsessive you know crazy stupid people i
could already imagine the music against
me was simply that melissa told a story
about a former college roommate that was
which was her college colleague yeah
yeah okay someone you knew at college
who had sent you some nasty
mean-spirited messages
and
you know melissa is not the greatest
storyteller you've now had
four years of practice but when i first
met you you know you like your ability
to like stand in front of an audience
and tell a story was it a very
rudimentary oh yeah no i had no
experience with that process i i was
never a storytelling storytelling type
of person the only performance that i
knew how to do was
uh studying a piece of music playing it
over and over and over again and then
performing for an audience that's much
different right just kind of improvised
my head and telling you a story about
something that happened in my life i
just i rarely did it and if i did it was
just with a personal friend it was right
it was performing right at the beginning
of this relationship too i really
trained melissa in how to teach english
as a second language when you stand
there as a teacher and that involves but
that involves storytelling it involves
taught me how to teach and you're saying
i didn't have any experience with that
you started at level zero and you know
what i was like no no this is you know
this is how you stand up people might
underestimate the extent of which i just
i spent a lot of time indoors i you know
i
i played video games i was just kind of
uh
i don't know i guess it's normal now for
people to stay in and not have that much
socialization as a
really early in their early 20s late
teens i remember too you know what a
funny example remember when we did
vegan activism on the street
in vancouver yes and how you responded
how you for you and it was such a
different experience because you know
sure yeah well you know that was going
up and talking to complete strangers
yeah isaac's a gregarious person he's
he's open and
he likes introducing himself to other
people and stuff like that
but you've come a long way but you've
developed a lot in four years i mean
it's not like i was completely
anti-social i did you know you know it's
just generally yeah okay if we're
talking about storytelling we're talking
about speaking new camera you have
worked on that a lot in four years in
effect okay but you were telling this
story which i admit it's not the most
fascinating story no it's not i'm amazed
that this has continued to be part of
your conversation here right but uh but
i'm right but i'm not amazed because
this is exactly what
stupid malevolent mean spirited people
in the audience latch onto they don't
care so we can talk for three hours
about global warming have i gotten one
email have i gotten one positive email
in response to the three hour discussion
global warming no
and this fandar is he writing to
me saying hey that was really
interesting what you said about global
warming it made me change the way i
think no
is he writing to me saying he's thinking
about a vegan diet or activism wow you
know you raised him in poor no no no so
you say you say you're surprised i'm not
surprised like this is what youtube
taught me
to know this is the majority of people
the majority of people will listen to
your three-hour lecture on global
warming and they'll be like oh there was
there was one minute where he said
something about his sex life in there
people watch too much tv people watch
too many movies just like they are not
connected to reality i swear like this
is just ridiculous like
how yeah how much are they interested in
reality like the point of the story the
point of sharing these things like right
you know that's what we're trying to get
across it's not that well you're trying
to help people too yeah i mean like all
this stuff is ultimately yeah has
positive motivations yeah so why don't
you say what was the context for you
telling the story anyway because i asked
you a question right yes i
this is from memory
maybe it's not perfect but i do remember
you asking me basically at one point did
you realize that people were malevolent
people were mean-spirited right and so
in relation to being on the internet
like right like at what point did you
realize
this was how your relationship with the
audience was going to be
yeah right something and then you told
this story
about a woman you knew i mean she's a
woman now but you guys were teenagers
obviously but a woman you knew when you
were both teenagers at university yes
who sent you a bunch of nasty messages
right and i knew i knew when it happened
i mean it doesn't matter and again the
whole point of the discussion the whole
point of the video is well-intentioned i
knew people were gonna get after me and
you know well and they're gonna ignore
all the positive constructive and
helpful things that are said but you
know melissa basically just didn't do
the best job of telling that story and
it was a story i already knew because
we'd already talked about it and it had
a big impact
when i received the messages and talked
to him about it you know and then later
on it came up in conversation because it
upset me at the time it
and then later on what thinking back on
it thinking about how that friendship
had basically ended because of that like
yeah but you should have tried to do
this see so like when i when we made the
videos we made videos talking about how
wonderful this relationship is good
things about it we've made videos
talking about how terrible the
relationship is the bad things about it
and they're all honest it's all true
it's all real
none of them i mean you know none of
them are misleading life is not black
and white and all of them are intended
to help people you know what i mean like
they are and like again maybe 10 of the
audience responds to that and like yo
man like that that video that was really
something because they do i do hear that
back like the stuff about our
relationship i do oh yeah oh yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah and by the way i hear
that from people at all levels of sexual
experience so you were we had one
longtime viewer of the channel who was a
virgin
you know and he didn't have any
experience but he you know he was one of
the people who really felt that he was
oh yeah he would write to me saying look
man this is really telling me what it's
like to be in this kind of relationship
you know and there are people who
appreciate it but 90 of the audience
is not trying to learn something from
the video 90 of the audience is looking
for their opportunity to hurt you
to hurt the person behind the camera and
even if they just do that by taking one
sentence you've said and posting it on a
gossip forum you know when guru
gossip.com whatever you know these these
different uh kiwi farms or what have you
you know
look just think about the mental
processes i've found something i've
found a piece of ammunition i found a
piece of evidence that i can use to make
myself feel
morally superior to the people on camera
and that's what they're doing again and
again and again and the people who've
made youtube videos against me and the
people who've sent me email like part of
what i'm writing back to them say can't
you see can't you examine your own
motivations here like it's so
transparent what you're doing and you're
like you may not believe me but i mean
one of the most vicious videos ever
recorded on my channel is my criticism
of jacqueline glenn about religion
yeah so i'm ethnically jewish
and jacqueline glenn has in effect
converted to judaism had a jewish
wedding as a jewish child with a jewish
name she has not admitted whether or not
she circumcised her child and jacqueline
glenn became rich and famous by being an
atheist activist and i'm saying hey here
you are doing prayers in hebrew at your
wedding
you know
and it is a very passionate it's a very
passionate video and you know someone
could look at one sentence of that
quoted out of context and think i'm mean
spirited and think i'm trying to hurt
her and i'm not like you know like the
reality is i make a video like that for
really sincere purposes i'm really
trying to make the world a better place
i'm really trying to help people i don't
think i'm going to help jacqueline
clinton now you give 100 other examples
my criticism of vegan gains you know
people have written to me saying it
changed their life you know like i'm
like when i made videos saying to vegan
gains look you're an adult you have to
stop playing video games you have to get
serious about real problems
childish things start living a more
meaningful life yeah
i know richard isn't going to take that
advice but other people do other people
hear it and think about it and they
realize they have a lot in common with
vegan gains and that some of this
discussion applies to them and they
change their lives you know what i mean
so like even if you just look at that
you think i'm just being vicious and
hurting someone i promise you and again
you can go back and watch the videos and
you know i do i don't realize a lot of
people not understand i'm not just
trying to hurt people yeah
but the majority of my audience is
trying to hurt me
that's the lesson i get
from people like fan darfur okay and all
they want to do is take you down a peg
and that's all and like that's why i'm
sorry guys we can look up the numbers
now but a couple thousand people have
seen me talking about global warming and
i said during that recording not one of
you is going to send me an email not one
of you in this audience and i was right
not one of you did you know and what are
the emails i've got i've gotten more
about my sex life
more about my supposedly
abusive relationship with melissa after
we did a series of videos where like in
one of those videos she did completely
on her own where she's speaking in her
own voice saying how a wonderful
relationship is right yeah and like
again
even though it's not in that i remember
you were like you need to dumb this down
like you know yeah that's true you need
to make sure it's more obvious to your
audience because you were going to have
meet people laughing to something right
it's not it's and i'm talking about the
positive that you've brought into my
life like right
yeah you know like but like you've got
to think about it like a police
deposition or something like this is
what this is going to be used against
what i was going to say
it's one thing to like hurt somebody's
ego to say something that would really
hurt your ego right versus saying
something that is like mean-spirited and
just hurtful like making fun of somebody
for their something they can't change
you know like you are not coming online
and
making fun of somebody for their
deformities like you know
that's that's really horrible and evil
and even something that like you know
you realize that they just can't control
like it's what
you believe they
can change you know like changes they
can implement in their life
uh or just like discussing this person
can help other people's lives discussing
their situation because inevitably it
will apply to other people's lives so
discussing vegan gains you know a lot of
people live their lives
playing video games into their 20s and
30s
and they don't realize that this has a
detrimental effect on their development
and you know what they're doing with
their time like that is worth talking
about
in a way that like you know it's not
just attacking vegan gains that's not
the point of the conversation that's not
the point of looking at it and people
feel attacked and that's okay right and
if it hurts if you feel upset get upset
be really hard to take like and i've had
so much hate mail on that stuff it's so
much happening for people defending
video games right it's like okay go
ahead get and you know some of those
people they're gonna reconsider five
years from now but you aren't doing
anything just to damage their lives
you're not you know ruining their lives
or making their lives miserable like
like this person who writes to you all
like every day
you make a video more than 100 fake
accounts to harass me on instagram on
youtube right via gmail yeah on any on
any platform sharing this i mean
it takes courage right so i i don't
think we have to digress in that a major
way but like you were just saying that
hypothetically this these videos i make
could could help the people i'm
criticizing we just talked about claire
michelle yes what if claire michelle had
watched that video i made five years ago
and taken it seriously of course of
course it could have changed your life
sorry because we went back and watched
it again i hadn't i hadn't watched it oh
yeah it's a great it's professors but
i'm just saying like these these videos
a lot of how about the videos i've made
about henya henia mania yeah i'm not
just flattering you like
yeah of any of them
like my views sure like in things that i
wouldn't have been able to like
philosophize about or discuss right like
it really does help me understand and if
we can't if we can psychology and yeah
just
of all these decisions that like you
know if your philosophy if your
philosophy doesn't have consequences
what is it worth okay philosophy should
have consequences there should be stakes
there should be risks and you know what
so like again someone i've criticized
really harshly henia mania my fellow
veganists done videos criticizing her
really harshly you can look back now
what's happened last five years in her
life and you can say wow her life would
be different her life would better if
she had just watched and listened to and
take it seriously these criticisms from
from about sale you know i
sorry but now now what if i were wrong
i'd be so happy if i were wrong like
imagine if we were sitting here in some
parallel universe where she lived her
life her way and it turned out
wonderfully and then i was making a
video saying wow you know what when i
look back at the criticism i offered
over the last several years i was
completely wrong i'd be so happy to be
wrong you know what i mean yes but
you know but my point is
there's risk for me and there are
consequences you know what i mean
there are consequences real people and
you know kenya is one person but they're
going to be a lot of people in that
audience who realize hey their life it's
a little bit like kenya your life is a
little bit like vegan gains you know or
what have you sure but anyway so look i
just say
you know these are the consequences of
really being honest on the internet
and you know
melissa started telling this story that
i already know because we live together
24 7. neither one of us has had a job
for years we have so many hours we know
everything going on in each other's
lives
i know exactly how good her digestion is
on any given day you know i know you
know
the details
hey you know i know whether or not
you've been to the gym or like you know
but you know anything that's upset you i
hear about you know what i mean i heard
a lot about that about that conversation
event so you told this story and i think
it's exactly because of the same
framework we talked about so she just
she mentioned briefly that like when
even when she made the video talking
about how wonderful this relationship is
and i was like no no no like you can't
be vague you can't like if you're gonna
do this like you have to you have to
think about the lowest common
denominator you ever think about people
who don't get it like you can't there
was there was some sarcasm like in your
first we just said something as if it
was self-evident that you meant the
opposite that's part of the definition
of sarcasm language like you say
something oh that's just great and your
meaning is that it's terrible it's like
no like you can't say no you have to
actually say what you mean because there
are people who will quote you saying
that's just great and treat it as if
you're saying that's great like
it's that up right but anyway in
that same way when we did that live
stream
you started to tell this story
basically about you know your horrible
friend or friend of me from from college
and you you you got nervous like you
kind of censored yourself yeah because i
don't
like uh
being
spare me the detail you got nervous for
completely obvious reasons
okay great right and then i was in the
position where i knew for the audience
this story didn't make any sense you
know so i then
filled in the blanks and i said if you
watch it i say to her in a friendly way
i said you really undersold that story
you know you kind of told the story
halfway and then i start filling in some
of the blanks which she agrees with okay
so you know um
this is what i'm dealing with then
following up on that i get harassment so
i don't know it's been a month or two
months but i've got an email about this
constantly from this guy fandar and he
made videos i think really significantly
defaming the two of us i mean i think
it's significant to claim i think it's a
significant form of defamation and
slander to say that someone's an abusive
boyfriend or girlfriend i think it's
significant defamation slander to say
that someone is gaslighting their
boyfriend or girlfriend and i've said to
him look by your own standards you try
to hold me to these moral standards
right you should all yourself those
moral standards so you should delete the
video because you know this is not true
okay um
so for one thing
uh he asks me he says oh well if what
you're saying is you know like what i'm
saying is true now which is completely
consistent with what both melissa and i
said during that live stream why don't i
send him the screenshots
of the messages of what i just said so
this is no no no apart from being
ridiculous this is the problem is that
there are no stakes there are no
consequences like if i complied with
this kind of unreasonable demand for the
audience
what do i get so if you guys have been
watching the channel long enough
there was a time when all these people
made up the story
that my court case in thailand was fake
and they're like well nobody's seen the
receipts everyone would see the receipts
i showed i showed the literal receipt
the legal documents to everyone who
asked what did i get like just saying
what's the conflict you think those
people then turned around and were nice
and respectful and positive towards me
when they know
like for one thing a lot of them just
kept lying they kept claiming the court
case was faced with faker that they'd
never seen proof that i paid the lawyer
that actually hired a law firm or that
the case was actually like you know and
the other but the particular people do
you think i ever earned one person's
respect or got one positive response i'm
taking time to say oh yeah sure like hey
this is the law firm this is i can show
you the proof i reached out to so many
people that way during that time right
but this guy in particular this is after
a four year long
hate and defamation campaign that's
still ongoing
you know it would be it's ridiculous it
is ridiculous when to ask but if i do
this
what do you think he's going to do back
for me and a lot of you guys don't know
this
but it was in response to this same guy
now about four years ago maybe three and
a half years ago
he was demanding to see the private
messages i'd had with a natural vegan
you know which is again it's completely
ridiculous but i was sitting there in my
apartment we were in southern taiwan at
that time we're gaussian i was like you
know what this guy is crazy and stupid
but
you know if he's really that interesting
because he was wearing anything he was
really interested well
maybe there's an audience for it you
know and i went back and read the
messages i'd completely forgotten them
and i was a really nice guy in those
messages i was really nice to it i was
like wow i was really nice there i was i
was assuming i was a bit of a jerk but
no i was really surprised and i took the
screenshots and i made a youtube video
so i did that for him i did that in
response to messages from this same guy
what'd it get me i mean how many yeah
does he then respond does he then
respond but saying wow okay now i really
appreciate that you're a reasonable and
honest person no i've now had years and
years of hatred and defamation and just
harassment from this guy just you know
needless insults and harassment from
somebody on trial yeah right right right
right but i mean okay it's not a trial
in the sense that there's never a
verdict and again if i clear my name for
this if i show you these messages right
the trial never ends and again it
doesn't matter i do a three hour video
look so we've done more than three hours
talking about our wonderful early issues
you've heard melissa talking about it
doesn't matter you're still trying to
frame me for gaslighting and abusing and
controlling manipulating my girlfriend
right and his evidence for this his
current evidence i've mentioned in the
past some examples of like the ludicrous
evidence he used he tried to frame me
tried to claim that i was a pedophile by
taking one sentence out of context and
if you just hear the sentence
immediately before and after it it's
completely clear that's not what i'm
saying this guy has gone all the way
with public defamation of me that would
put you in jail okay in canada this
would be several years in prison just
that one example of you trying to frame
me for being a pedophile so like sorry
even if you just hear the one sentence
you actually tell it's not i mean one
sentence but if you hear the whole
paragraph then it's it's even clearer
what it was i was saying by the way
that's a video all you guys have seen
that's from back when i was uh you know
it was the durianrider conflict but it
was just a sentence where i was saying
look the fundamental issue here isn't
whether someone is 16 year old 16 years
old or 18 years old there's a more
fundamental problem which is blah blah
blah like i'm talking about the
philosophical roots of the thing like
you know what what are we really dealing
with these kind of age it's very clear
that i'm in the middle of making a moral
argument against
pedophilia or just just barely you know
that it's not being just over the line
that matters here's what really matters
blah blah blah so you know that that's
the point of that more like okay so
that's who i'm dealing with here asking
me to say oh well you know if if what
you're saying is true why don't you send
me
screenshots oh yeah and so and by the
way he's admitted he's wrong about that
he's admitted he was wrong but a whole
bunch of things he tried to frame me he
took some things durianrider said that
durianrider has admitted were lies and
that he's retracted and deleted from his
own channel he put together a video
defeaming and denouncing me with those
clips from durianrider and and i wrote
to him and said look don't you realize
even durianrider has admitted this is a
lie you again journalistic integrity he
got in touch with durianrider and dear
martyr said i was a great guy
which is interesting to hear that's
interesting here that's during writer's
current perspective on me so this is
what we're dealing with and that's okay
so you know
um
he quotes me here so i'm i'm now quoting
myself
this is in his reply but he quotes what
i said to him in the email before i said
quote think about what you're saying
about her you're claiming that she has
no idea what she's talking about herself
and that she must be the victim of some
man's manipulation etc you call yourself
a feminist but you do not regard women
as having real agency as having their
own intelligence and making their own
decisions now i do think sincerely
that's part of this guy's problem that's
part of why he's in this bizarre white
knight mentality all the time and he
acts like he's trying to save melissa
like melissa should be grateful to him
when melissa hates this guy
it's incredibly hurtful to melissa what
he's been saying
all right
why don't you read this baby
i'm joking okay so this is this is
fandor writing okay this is him writing
okay
it was you who talked about how
melissa's friend is such a terrible
person not melissa
you told your girlfriend on camera that
her friend was somehow trying to hurt
her it would be another thing if melissa
herself started saying that her friend
is a a terrible person a piece of
etc
then i would indeed take her for her
word but she didn't
it was you who spewed those ideas to her
while she just listened to your
perspective possibly reluctantly
just just
this is the level of social retardation
you're dealing with and it never goes
away it never ends this is someone
writing to me he's never been married
he's never had a girlfriend like we have
a relationship where we do the dishes
together every day yeah so like i can
start telling a story and melissa can
finish it right and melissa can start
telling a story and i already know the
story and i can participate in telling
it yes that's what you were seeing on
camera so seeing as there are people in
the audience who are so stupid
and so malicious so malign they have
such bad intentions that they they have
fastened on to the fact that there was
one sentence of a genuinely spontaneous
unscripted live stream like we were just
talking where you started telling your
story basically about how awful this
person was and you kind of stopped short
and i said to you you know you're really
underselling it and then i was filling
in the eyes okay melissa so do you just
do you feel that i was gaslighting you
that's in that video how do you who do
you think's gaslighting you me or fandar
so as i understand it gaslighting is
yeah making you question your own
reality it's making someone believe that
they're insane it's like convincing
someone that like you aren't lying that
they're insane that's what gaslighting
is yeah it's a very serious charge
ridiculous to say that any that in the
middle of telling this trivial story in
the meaning of this anecdote go on yeah
yeah the like i said the question that
is posed to me is when did you
discover that your audience your
relationship with the audience was going
to be consist of the solution yeah yeah
like bad intentioned people like people
who have bad intentions and i thought of
this just off the top of my head i had
no planning i didn't think about it
beforehand started telling the story
true i'm not a great storyteller i i'm
trying to improve that's why that's why
i'm on the internet that's why i make
youtube videos is i i want to be better
this way but even even if i were wrong
even if that's not the way melissa would
tell the story like even if she told the
story her way and then i had a different
perspective or like i felt that your
friend was really nervous you're allowed
to say that i'm sorry i'm sorry for you
but like no
i'm not gaslighting you're right
i'm not gaslighting her i'm not
manipulating her i'm not being an
abusive boyfriend like like so you and i
both read the same thing right no you're
wrong sure you could disagree he wasn't
a but it's like okay i'm i'm more
polite about it i don't know why why am
i more polite right nobody is no stakes
she was a to me like that
person she was bad to me okay yes if you
want me to be really honest if you if
you and i read well and that's what this
video is about it's about the price of
honesty yeah like the reality of youtube
is if you're not going to be 110 honest
don't tell the story right that's that's
true that is the moral of story but
right and i knew i knew when you held
back i was like oh the audience is going
to react to that
because the audience is stupid the
audience is and maligned that's
the reality
we are telling stories to mentally
disabled people that's what this youtube
channel is that's what the whole
internet is this is the bloopers you
have to be prepared for the lowest
common denominator people have very
little intelligence you know and very
very dark motivation but you know the
point is you and i both read those same
messages from your friend
and i saw how much they upset you well i
don't want to overset it i don't want to
overstate it but you know it had an
impact on you oh yeah that's that's why
you were telling the story at all so if
my perspective was your friend was
really mean to you and let's just say
theoretically maybe your perspective is
she wasn't that mean to you in case it's
not her name casey didn't catch it not
my perspective yeah it's just i was
trying to be polite but
being a little bit polite and invasive
and telling the story but you know and
you you know you got to keep it real
with the audience or else the story
isn't worth not all right
but even if we had different
perspectives on that that doesn't mean
i'm an abusive boyfriend that doesn't
mean i'm a controlling boyfriend that
doesn't mean i'm gaslighting my
boyfriend that doesn't mean you have the
legal right to say that on youtube or
elsewhere
but i also want to say like even if you
did say that like what are you you're
indicating that i can't think for myself
that's right just because isil tells me
like on a deep level
says that uh
the messages from this that she was
trying to hurt me yeah right like that's
so horrible for isil to
to suggest that to me that that somebody
like he's looking out for for me he sees
that i'm upset he realizes you know once
he i tell him what the conversation was
like that she was she was trying to hurt
me and i was like yeah you're right like
yeah
you know there's
she wasn't being accidentally mean to
you
that that's all like maybe it you know
it doesn't it's not worth digressing
into like the details like maybe she
herself was emotionally in a bad state i
could make excuses for why her behavior
but this is about the phenomenon of the
youtube audience watches a three-hour
video
we say so much during that same video
you talk about and you demonstrate what
a wonderful relationship this is like
there are videos even the video we did
yesterday we did a video together just
talking about claire michelle if you
watch you can tell what kind of
relationship we have yeah even from this
like you can tell oh no no i'm going to
take this one sentence i'm going to
forcibly misunderstand it or
misinterpret it and misrepresent it and
then i'm going to publicly denounce you
and i'm gonna say and claim that melissa
should get out of this relationship
right exactly and it's like it's not
just that he's making videos like this
he's messaging you too
all the time and and it just doesn't let
up so
um you know it's it continues and so
i'll continue okay so why don't you eat
the rest of this even where did i stop
here okay so you then i wouldn't take
her it would be another thing if melissa
herself started saying that her is
terrible that her friend is a bit so
they're not friends anymore in case you
didn't know
they were friends years ago and then
this you mean if you actually heard the
story anyway
then i would indeed take her for her
word but she didn't it was you who
spewed those ideas to her while she just
listened to your perspective possibly
reluctantly like okay it's bad for you
to talk about your ideas it's bad
uh
but that's this is the point is these
are people in the audience they're
seriously there are people in your
audience who are 30 year old virgins 40
year old virgins like that's such a
misinterpretation of what actually
happened during those moments of the
live stream right
yeah
i love this sentence actually this was
all on camera like that's as if
incriminatingly right
yes apparently incriminating our
wonderful
[Applause]
melissa melissa cooked in the background
yes you can tell what a wonderful
relationship we have on camera but a
small percentage of really stupid people
with really bad motivations will take
one sentence and misinterpret it and
exaggerate it to try to create the
illusion that you have a terrible
abusive relationship
and by the way if you care about this do
you think there's nobody for you to help
on planet earth have you watched the
news this week about afghanistan if you
are a feminist if you care about women
what's going on in afghanistan right now
if you want to be on white knight if you
want to help people there are people in
terrible situations there are people you
can help there are people you can
probably help in the city you're living
in right now and there are people you
can help on the other side of the world
this isn't about helping anyone and
that's what makes your videos so
different from mine okay whether i'm
talking about fandar or i'm talking
about soy crates or i'm talking about
nor vegan or i'm talking about a vegan
foot soldier or vegan ava you are just
trying to destroy people and you don't
realize it because i do think the
fundamental motivation
is that you want to feel morally
superior to others and you know what i'm
not like that that's not how i live my
life when i went to laos to hand out
sacks of rice to starving people it
wasn't so i could feel morally superior
to them all right
it's a topic for a separate view but you
know there's this line from a rap song
i'm gonna paraphrase it real people do
real things
okay
real people do real things and those of
us who do real things we're not out here
trying to
virtue signal
and and try
trying to construct a mythology that
other people what what do you win if
we're in a terrible relationship what do
you win what do you win if you manage to
convince 100 or 200 other
incredibly stupid possibly mentally
disabled people with bad intentions to
also send us harassment and email
because that's what you've done like
you're you've managed to convince like
five people that you're right and that's
what nor vegan did that's what these
other people in soyuz they managed to
influence a small number of people to
view everything we do with the most
unchartable assumptions what have you
accomplished okay you could buy an
airplane ticket to pakistan you can go
to the border between pakistan and
afghanistan right now if you really are
a feminist if you really want to help
battered women do you want to help women
who are in bad relationships they can't
get out of yeah you can
there are women who need your help in
afghanistan and there are women who need
your help in the city you're living in
and melissa is someone who in her own
words in a completely self-confident way
has made it completely clear to you and
to you specifically we've taken the time
to talk to this one one-on-one
for years
she has made it clear that you don't
need she does not need your help
okay and you still are hung up on this
white knight fantasy okay so yes this
was all on camera finish this brilliant
message yes let melissa decide whether
or not her friend
was trying to hurt her she doesn't need
you telling her that she is supposed to
be the one telling you that but she
didn't
she knows more about her friend than you
do i'm now telling you the same thing
that you are telling me let women make
their own decisions and judgments about
their lives yeah i'd say the same thing
to him
why don't you let melissa make our own
decisions and judgment about her life
that's right
look if something happens to you
and you talk to somebody you want to
talk to them about it because you want
to get their input like
that that's a very fundamental thing
about relationships about sharing
experiences with people there are people
that go through from traumatic
experiences it's like as if melissa
would have no interest in my opinion
right
yeah i value i trust you well you're
interested you're interested yeah
yeah of course okay yes sure i would
like to know no no no i agree it's part
of what he's not getting that like when
you're saying this it's a conversation
with me also it's a conversation but
like we're talking about your feelings
and your experience it's like
that's right
um there are a lot of people who only
know video games she knows more about
her friend sure yeah that's true i do
know more about her than isil does but
it's it's also interesting too to get
somebody else's perspective that doesn't
know the person because that will give
you more of an objective viewpoint like
the detached outside perspective i might
want to excuse this shitty behavior from
my friend or my former friend
yeah i mean we weren't even that close
but it's like still you know i knew you
so maybe you're going through a rough
time there were things that she said
that indicated that she was going
through a rough time so i said okay i
don't want to repeat what we did in the
original live stream because we talked
about that but we talked about it like
part of what came out of that that was
meaningful in that same live stream was
you talking about the fact that you had
to start judging these things in a
different way yes you know because i
mean the part of it like my perspective
and that is whoa this person is
intentionally trying to hurt you yes and
you talk we already talked about in the
live stream and you talked about that
that was actually something as an adult
you had to reel like oh look i didn't
think about it that way at all but that
is what's going on this is someone who's
taken time out of their day to send me
malicious hate mail and that's what this
is this is someone trying to hurt me you
know whatever their motivations yeah
yeah but that was that was doesn't like
that's not subtext that's not subjects
that was the test let me decide whether
or not her friend was trying to hurt her
like okay i've decided that is what she
was trying to do and that's yeah yeah
yeah
so
yeah good luck trying to justify a
multi-year you know hate campaign
against someone hate defamation
so look guys um i don't want to give the
message here that with youtube and with
being honest about your personal life
experience that you can't win okay you
can win and you know
the learning process that we go through
here it's the ultimate thing to win
the ultimate question is what kind of
person do you want to be what kind of
person you want to become and youtube is
an incredibly powerful incredibly
positive tool for becoming a better
person even if it is something as simple
as motivating you to do book reviews
motivating you to like you know if
you're studying chinese it's a lonely
it's a lonely habit let me tell you the
hours of what is it stuff well you know
it's a lonesome
adventure you know and instead to be
able to come on and talk about your
progress and talk to yourself whatever
it is whether you're studying ancient
greece or ancient rome or modern
politics or you know the chinese
language whatever it is it's this
tremendously positive transformational
tool and what you see on youtube again
and again is the tragedy of human nature
people are misusing this tool they're
taking the medicine as poison you know
they're they're they're you know they're
ruining their own lives and they're
trying to ruin the lives of others and i
think the fundamental error that these
people are making
is that they want to feel like a better
person they want to feel morally
superior as opposed to actually being a
better person as opposed to actually
becoming a better person which which
doesn't just come it doesn't just come
from going to afghanistan or doing
something heroic or daring you know it
can come from reading books it can come
from reflecting on exactly what we did
during the livestream reflecting on
mistakes you made in your life and
thinking about it and think about how
you want to do better next time i do a
lot of that on my youtube channel there
are all kinds of things you can do
to become a better person
and youtube can be this wonderful
catalyst you know in so doing but yes
part of my personal tragedy in life is
that i didn't realize how blind i was to
the stupidity and malevolence of human
nature until people like this came into
my life and made through their obsessive
hatred of melissa and i you know made it
impossible
for me to ignore